.TH DPIPE 1 "August 23, 2016" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
dpipe \- bi-directional pipe command
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dpipe 
[
.I OPTIONS
]
.I command
[
.I args
]
.BI =
.I command
[
.I args
]
[
.BI =
[
.I command
[
.I args
]
]
]
\&...
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBdpipe\fP is a general tool to run two commands diverting the
standard output of the first command into the standard input of the second
and vice-versa.
It is the bi-directional
extension of the \fB|\fP (pipe) syntax used by all the shells.
The \fB=\fP has been chosen as a metaphor of two parallel communication lines
between the commands.
It is also possible to concatenate several tools. Intermediate programs communicate
using standard input and standard output with the preceding tool and alternate standard input
and output towards the following tool.
The number of the file descriptors is use as alternate standard input and output can be retrieved 
from the envirnonment variables ALTERNATE_STDIN and ALTERNATE_STDOUT using \fBgetenv(3)\fR or \fBgetenv(1)\fR.
If an intermediate tool should process only the data flowing in one direction 
use \fB{\fP or \fB}\fP
as suffix for the preceding \fB=\fP and prefix of the following one.
.br
This tool has been written as a tool for the Virtual Distributed Ethernet.
.SH OPTIONS
.B dpipe
accepts the following options:
.TP
\fB\-n
.TQ
\fB\-\-nowrapproc
create only one process per command, the last one being the parent of all the others
(the standard behavior of dpipe is to create a process for dpipe and all the
processes running the commands are children of dpipe).
.TP
\fB\-d
.TQ
\fB\-\-daemon
run as a daemon.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIPIDFILE
.TQ
\fB\-\-pidfile\fR \fIPIDFILE
write the process id of the dpipe process (or the id of the last command if \fB-r\fR)
to the file \fIPIDFILE\fR
.TP
\fB\-P\fR \fIPGRPFILE
.TQ
\fB\-\-pgrpfile\fR \fIPGRPFILE
write the process group id (negative) including all the processes launched by dpipe
to the file \fIPGRPFILE\fR
.TP
\fB\-N
.TQ
\fB\-\-nowrapnoclean
Like -n but it does not remove PIDFILE or PGRPFILE.
(when \fB-n\fR is used together with \fB-p\fR or \fB-P\fR, dpipe creates a cleanup process
to wait for the processes to terminate and remove the files. \fB-N\fR avoids the creation
of the cleanup process)
.SH EXAMPLES
.B dpipe a = b
.br
processes a and b are bidirectionally connected: stdin of a is connected to stdout of b 
and vice-versa
.br
.B dpipe a = b = c
.br
a and b are connected as above. Alternate stdin of b is connected to stdout of c and
alternate stdout of b to stdin of c
.br
.B dpipe a =} b }= c
.br
This is a cycle of pipes: stdout of a is connected to stdin of b, stdout of b with stdin
of c, and stdout of c to stdin of a
.br
.B dpipe a =} b }={ c {= d = e
.br
all the notations can be mixed together.
this is a -> b -> d -> c and back to a; alternate ports of d are connected to e
.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvde_switch\fP(1),
\fBvde_plug\fP(1),
\fBvde_plug2tap\fP(1),
\fBvdeq\fP(1).
\fBwirefilter\fP(1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
VDE is a project by Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>.
