.TH LIBVDEPLUG_BONDING 1 "April 30, 2017" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
libvdeplug_bonding - multiplexing vdeplug module: bonding links
.SH SYNOPSIS
libvdeplug_bonding.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a libvdeplug multiplex module implementing the bonding of multiple links.

The common usage of this module is to support multiple links between virtual machines or switches.
This module transmit packets on all the available links in a round-robin manner.
If the links use several paths and channels it is possible to reach a higher bandwidth.

This module of libvdeplug4 can be used in any program supporting vde like
\fBvde_plug\fR, \fBkvm\fR, \fBqemu\fR, \fBuser-mode-linux\fR and \fBvirtualbox\fR.

The vde_plug_url syntax of this module is the following:
.RS
.B bonding://\fR[\fIpath\fR]
.br
.B bonding://\fR[\fIpath\fR]\fB[\fR[\fIOPTION\fR][\fB/\fIOPTION\fR][\fB/\fIOPTION\fR]...\fB]
.br
.RE

If \fIpath\fR is omitted the path of the bonding is /tmp/vdenode_$USERNAME (e.g. /tmp/vdenode_john
if the username is john).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fBmode=\fR\fIMODE
define the permissions for the bonding node (see chmod). MODE is an octal number.
The standard permission mask is: 0600 (only processes owning to the same user can join the network).
.TP
\fBdirmode=\fR\fIDIRMODE
define the permissions for the bonding node control directory(see chmod). MODE is an octal number.
If omitted, is computed from mode.
.TP
\fBgrp=\fR\fIGROUP
define the group ownership of the bonding node.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B bonding:///tmp/bonding
.br
Other virtual machines, namespaces or vde_plug can join this bondinglink using \fBvde:///tmp/hub\fR or simply \fB/tmp/hub\fR
.br
Given two virtual machines using \fBbonding:///tmp/vm1\fR and \fBbonding:///tmp/vm2\fR respectively, it is possible to
connect them using \fBvde_plug /tmp/vm1 /tmp/vm2\fR. If the second virtual machine is running on a remote hosts;
\fBip1.vm2.domain.org\fR and \fBip2.vm2.domain.org\fR are two ip addresses permitting to reach that remote host using
different paths, the commands \fBvde_plug /tmp/vm1 = ssh ip1.vm2.domain.org vde_plug /tmp/vm2\fR
and \fBvde_plug /tmp/vm1 = ssh ip2.vm2.domain.org vde_plug /tmp/vm2\fR create two channels between the two virtual machines.
Packets are sent in turns on one or the other link.
.br
.B bonding:///tmp/bonding[mode=0666]
.br
It is the same bondinglink, but everybody is allowed to connect their processes.
.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvde_plug\fP(1),
