.TH LIBVDEPLUG_HUB 1 "April 30, 2017" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
libvdeplug_hub - multiplexing vdeplug module: hub
.SH SYNOPSIS
libvdeplug_hub.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a libvdeplug multiplex module implementing a virtual networking hub.

This module of libvdeplug4 can be used in any program supporting vde like
\fBvde_plug\fR, \fBkvm\fR, \fBqemu\fR, \fBuser-mode-linux\fR and \fBvirtualbox\fR.

The vde_plug_url syntax of this module is the following:
.RS
.B hub://\fR[\fIpath\fR]
.br
.B hub://\fR[\fIpath\fR]\fB[\fR[\fIOPTION\fR][\fB/\fIOPTION\fR][\fB/\fIOPTION\fR]...\fB]
.br
.RE

If \fIpath\fR is omitted the path of the hub is /tmp/vdenode_$USERNAME (e.g. /tmp/vdenode_john
if the username is john).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fBmode=\fR\fIMODE
define the permissions for the hub (see chmod). MODE is an octal number.
The standard permission mask is: 0600 (only processes owning to the same user can join the network).
.TP
\fBdirmode=\fR\fIDIRMODE
define the permissions for the hub control directory(see chmod). MODE is an octal number.
If omitted, is computed from mode.
.TP
\fBgrp=\fR\fIGROUP
define the group ownership of the hub.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B hub:///tmp/hub
.br
Other virtual machines, namespaces or vde_plug can join this hub using \fBvde:///tmp/hub\fR or simply \fB/tmp/hub\fR
.br
.B hub:///tmp/hub[mode=0666]
.br
It is the same hub, but everybody is allowed to connect their processes.
.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvde_plug\fP(1),
