.TH LIBVDEPLUG_SWITCH 1 "April 30, 2017" "Virtual Distributed Ethernet"
.SH NAME
libvdeplug_switch - multiplexing vdeplug module: switch
.SH SYNOPSIS
libvdeplug_switch.so
.SH DESCRIPTION
This is a libvdeplug multiplex module implementing a vde switch.

This module of libvdeplug4 can be used in any program supporting vde like
\fBvde_plug\fR, \fBkvm\fR, \fBqemu\fR, \fBuser-mode-linux\fR and \fBvirtualbox\fR.

The vde_plug_url syntax of this module is the following:
.RS
\fBswitch://\fR[\fIpath\fR]
.br
\fBswitch://\fR[\fIpath\fR]\fB[\fR[\fIOPTION\fR][\fB/\fIOPTION\fR][\fB/\fIOPTION\fR]...\fB]\fR
.br
.RE

If \fIpath\fR is omitted the path of the switch is /tmp/vdenode_$USERNAME (e.g. /tmp/vdenode_john
if the username is john).

This switch supports 801.1Q vlan as a trunk switch, i.e. all the VLAN tagged packets are forwarded as
such. The forwarding table uses a key including both the MAC address and th VLAN id.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fBhashsize=\fR\fINUM
set the size of the forwarding hash table. (default value 256)
.TP
\fBexpiretime=\fR\fISECONDS
set the expire time of the forwarding table entries. (default value 120)
.TP
\fBhashseed=\fR\fINUM
set a hash seed, in case the hash function generates too many collisions.
.TP
\fBmode=\fR\fIMODE
define the permissions for the switch (see chmod). MODE is an octal number.
The standard permission mask is: 0600 (only processes owning to the same user can join the network).
.TP
\fBdirmode=\fR\fIDIRMODE
define the permissions for the switch control directory(see chmod). MODE is an octal number.
If omitted, is computed from mode.
.TP
\fBgrp=\fR\fIGROUP
define the group ownership of the switch.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B switch:///tmp/switch
.br
Other virtual machines, namespaces or vde_plug can join this switch using \fBvde:///tmp/switch\fR or simply \fB/tmp/switch\fR
.br
.B switch:///tmp/switch[mode=0666/hashsize=1024]
.br
It is the same switch, but everybody is allowed to connect their processes and the hash table has 1024 entries.
.br
The null plug can be used to create a stand-alone vde switch:
.br
.B vde_plug null:// switch:///tmp/myswitch
.br
The following command creates a switch connected to a tap virtual interface
.br
.B vde_plug tap://mytap switch:///tmp/myswitch

.SH NOTICE
Virtual Distributed Ethernet is not related in any way with
www.vde.com ("Verband der Elektrotechnik, Elektronik und Informationstechnik"
i.e. the German "Association for Electrical, Electronic & Information
Technologies").
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBvde_plug\fP(1),
